Add contribution docs (#267)
carbon-design-system/gatsby-theme-carbon: packages/example/src/pages/contributing.mdx

---

> title: Contributing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Contributions
```
We are using `contributions` on the Carbon site, we should keep them consistent.

---

<PageDescription>

> This guide is meant for developers who would like to contribute to the theme. We'll show how to get the development environment set up as quickly as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this guide to contribute to the theme. We'll show you how to get the development environment set up as quickly as possible so you can start contributing.
```

</PageDescription>

<AnchorLinks>

>   <AnchorLink>Project Setup</AnchorLink>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <AnchorLink>Project setup</AnchorLink>
```

  <AnchorLink>Development</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>Work in a branch</AnchorLink>

>   <AnchorLink>Sass and CSS Modules</AnchorLink>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <AnchorLink>Sass and CSS modules</AnchorLink>
```

  <AnchorLink>VS Code</AnchorLink>
</AnchorLinks>

> ## Project Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Project setup
```

1. Go to [gatsby-theme-carbon](https://github.com/carbon-design-system/gatsby-theme-carbon) and click the `Fork` button in the top-right corner.

1. After it's finished, click on the `Clone or Download` button and copy the contents.

1. In your terminal, clone the repo into your directory of choice

   ```sh
   git clone [PASTE_URL_HERE]
   cd gatsby-theme-carbon
   ```

1. When you clone your forked repo the `origin` is set to your fork by default. You'll want to add a remote that points to the upstream repo.

   ```sh
   git remote add upstream git@github.com:carbon-design-system/gatsby-theme-carbon.git
   ```

> 1. In your terminal, verify the remotes have been set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your terminal, verify that the remotes have been set
```

Reviewer: I never thought I'd suggest someone add "that" to a sentence, but here we are 😂

   ```sh
   git remote -v
   ```

## Development

We use [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/) and yarn workspaces to develop the Carbon Gatsby theme. This allows us to have a development environment that's closely linked to the theme with minimal setup. Run `yarn install` to install all of the projects dependencies.

> This project has two packages: the actual theme package (`gatsby-theme-carbon`) and and the `example` package. The example package emulates a project which uses the theme. It's only dependencies are Gatsbt, React and the adjacent theme package. The `example` package also serves as the theme's documentation and [website](https://gatsby-theme-carbon.now.sh); it's deployed on every merge to master.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This project has two packages: the actual theme package (`gatsby-theme-carbon`) and and the `example` package. The example package emulates a project which uses the theme. It's only dependencies are Gatsby, React and the adjacent theme package. The `example` package also serves as the theme's documentation and [website](https://gatsby-theme-carbon.now.sh); it's deployed on every merge to master.
```

> This project has two packages: the actual theme package (`gatsby-theme-carbon`) and and the `example` package. The example package emulates a project which uses the theme. It's only dependencies are Gatsby, React and the adjacent theme package. The `example` package also serves as the theme's documentation and [website](https://gatsby-theme-carbon.now.sh); it's deployed on every merge to master.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project has two packages: the actual theme package (`gatsby-theme-carbon`) and the `example` package. The example package emulates a project which uses the theme. Its only dependencies are Gatsby, React and the adjacent theme package. The `example` package also serves as the theme's documentation and [website](https://gatsby-theme-carbon.now.sh); it's deployed on every merge to master.
```

New theme development will happen in the theme package while documentation and testing of that change will occur through changes in the example directory.

### Development scripts

- `yarn dev` – start the development environment
- `yarn dev:clean` – clear cache and restart dev
- `yarn format` – format your code with prettier
- `yarn lint` - check for errors in your javascript

## Work in a branch

You should always start a new project by pulling upstream changes into master and then creating a new branch. This workflow ensures you don't accidentally commit anything to your master branch and get stuck when trying to open a pull request.

```sh
git checkout master
git pull upstream master
git checkout -b my-branch-name
```

When you're ready to open a pull request, push to your origin remote.

```sh
git push origin my-branch-name
```

> You'll get a message in your terminal with a url to open up a pull request in the upstream repository. Navigate to that URL and be sure to give a detailed summary of your pull request in the title and body section of the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll get a message in your terminal with a URL to open up a pull request in the upstream repository. Navigate to that URL and be sure to give a detailed summary of your pull request in the title and body section of the form.
```

> ## Sass and CSS Modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sass and CSS modules
```

> For internal theme components we use [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/syntax) and [CSS modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules#css-modules). This allows us to take advantage of the carbon design system resources while not worrying about className collisions. By default, every Sass file will have access to all of the carbon-components [vars](https://github.com/carbon-design-system/carbon/blob/master/packages/components/src/globals/scss/_vars.scss): color, spacing, theme, and motion as well as type and layout mixins are included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For internal theme components we use [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/syntax) and [CSS modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules#css-modules). This allows us to take advantage of the Carbon Design System resources while not worrying about className collisions. By default, every Sass file will have access to all of the Carbon components [vars](https://github.com/carbon-design-system/carbon/blob/master/packages/components/src/globals/scss/_vars.scss): color, spacing, theme, and motion, as well as type and layout mixins, are included.
```

Reviewer: @vpicone Take another look at this. How should we reference the Sass vars? carbon-components is deprecated

> You should co-locate your stylesheet with the component(s) that import it. If the component is `TreeView` then the stylesheeet should be `TreeView.module.scss`. All contained within the `TreeView` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should colocate your stylesheet with the component(s) that import it. If the component is `TreeView` then the stylesheet should be `TreeView.module.scss`. All contained within the `TreeView` directory.
```

> ### CSS Modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### CSS modules
```

> You don't need to prefix your classes, CSS modules will generate the unique class name for you. Import the class from the `.scss` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You don't need to prefix your classes as CSS modules will generate the unique class name for you. Import the class from the `.scss` file.
```

```scss path=TreeView.module.scss
.treeView {
  color: $text-01;
}
```

```jsx path=TreeView.js
import { treeView } from './style.css';

const TreeView = props => <div className={treeView} />;
```

For conditionally applying class names, use the `classname` library. Note how we're using a [computed property name](https://tylermcginnis.com/computed-property-names/) for the property being based to `cx`. That's because the className isn't literally `"long"` it's a value generated by CSS modules and placed in the `long` variable.

```jsx path=TreeView.js
import cx from 'classname';
import { treeView, long } from './style.css';

const TreeView = props => {
  const className = cx(treeView, {
    [long]: props.long,
  });
  const TreeView = props => <div className={className} />;
};
```

If you need to target a global class not processed by CSS Modules, you can do so with the [global selector](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules#exceptions).

```scss
:global(.bx--grid) .codeBlock {
  @include carbon--type-style('code-01');
}
```

## VS Code

> To get linting error feedback while writing javascript and scss in VSCode, install the [stylelint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=shinnn.stylelint) and [eslint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint) extensions. We use ESLint's prettier rules to format and lint all of our javascript in one pass. To get your code to format properly on save, add the following to a `.vscode/settings.json` in the root of your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get linting error feedback while writing javascript and SCSS in VS Code, install the [stylelint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=shinnn.stylelint) and [eslint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint) extensions. We use ESLint's prettier rules to format and lint all of our javascript in one pass. To get your code to format properly on save, add the following to a `.vscode/settings.json` in the root of your project
```
